docs/specification/index.md, before:

# HMCP Specification

Healthcare Model Context Protocol (HMCP) expands on base [MCP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26) by adding the below enhancements:
- [Authentication, Authorization & Scopes](#authentication--scopes)
    - Auth can be OAuth 2.0 or mTLS
- [Patient Context](#patient-context)
- [Guardrails](#guardrails)
    - Define few example guardrails
- Logging/Auditing
- [Bidirectional agent to agent communication](#bi-directional-agent-to-agent-communication)

## Architecture Components

### Diagram

```mermaid
---
Title: Health MCP in action
---
graph LR
    subgraph HS[Health System]
        subgraph AIA[AI Agent]
        end
    end

    subgraph HMCP Server
        subgraph GATE[HMCP Gateway]
        end
        subgraph IMA[Agents]
        end
        AIA <--> |HMCP| GATE
        GATE <--> |HMCP| IMA
    end

    subgraph 3PP[3rd party platform]
        subgraph 3PDS[Data store]
        end
        subgraph 3PALGO[Clinical Algorithm]
        end
        GATE <--> |HMCP|3PDS
        GATE <--> |HMCP|3PALGO
    end
```

### Authentication & Scopes
We will use OAuth 2.0 protocol when authentication is needed where end user token is needed. [OAuth Flow](./auth.md)

If service to service communication is needed then we will use mTLS.

### Guardrails

For guardrails we will use the Nvidia Nemo Guardrails library. Guardrails need to be defined 

Example [Validate LLM output against journals](./guardrails.md)

### Patient Context

[Details](./context.md)

### Bi-directional agent to agent communication

[Sampling](./sampling.md)

### TODO:

- Add JSON specification
- Add ability to define guardrails in specification/ or in experimental capabilities
- Publish agent card
- Add capability negotiation in client for sampling
- Added section on bi-directional agent communication
- Add a sequence diagram showing the complete flow with auth and guardrails

Commit message:

Syncing code from internal repository. Added SDK, examples and detailed specification.

docs/specification/index.md, after:

# HMCP Specification

Healthcare Model Context Protocol (HMCP) expands on base [MCP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26) by adding the below enhancements:
- [HMCP Specification](#hmcp-specification)
  - [Architecture Components](#architecture-components)
    - [Diagram](#diagram)
    - [Authentication \& Scopes](#authentication--scopes)
      - [Comparison of MCP vs HMCP Authentication](#comparison-of-mcp-vs-hmcp-authentication)
    - [Guardrails](#guardrails)
    - [Patient Context](#patient-context)
    - [Bi-directional agent to agent communication](#bi-directional-agent-to-agent-communication)
    - [_TODO_:](#todo)

## Architecture Components

### Diagram

```mermaid
---
Title: Health MCP in action
---
graph LR
    subgraph HS[Health System]
        subgraph AIA[AI Agent]
        end
    end

    subgraph HMCP Server
        subgraph GATE[HMCP Gateway]
        end
        subgraph IMA[Agents]
        end
        AIA <--> |HMCP| GATE
        GATE <--> |HMCP| IMA
    end

    subgraph 3PP[3rd party platform]
        subgraph 3PDS[Data store]
        end
        subgraph 3PALGO[Clinical Algorithm]
        end
        GATE <--> |HMCP|3PDS
        GATE <--> |HMCP|3PALGO
    end
```

### Authentication & Scopes
HMCP implements OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect following the SMART on FHIR authorization framework model. This approach provides a standardized, secure method for healthcare applications to authenticate and obtain appropriately scoped access to clinical data.

Two primary authentication mechanisms are supported:

1. **OAuth 2.0 for user-mediated contexts** - When end-user consent and context is needed
2. **mTLS (Mutual TLS)** - For secure service-to-service communication

For detailed implementation examples and flows, see the [Authentication Implementation Guide](./auth.md).

#### [Comparison of MCP vs HMCP Authentication](./hmcp_auth_vs_mcp_auth.md)

### Guardrails

For guardrails we will use the Nvidia Nemo Guardrails library. Guardrails need to be defined 

Example [Validate LLM output against journals](./guardrails.md)

### Patient Context

[Details](./context.md)

### Bi-directional agent to agent communication

[Sampling](./sampling.md)

### _TODO_:

- Add JSON specification
- Add ability to define guardrails in specification/ or in experimental capabilities
- Publish agent card
- Add capability negotiation in client for sampling
- Added section on bi-directional agent communication
- Add a sequence diagram showing the complete flow with auth and guardrails
